feat(docs) Adds a feature page about dongles (#2401)
zmkfirmware/zmk: docs/docs/features/dongle.mdx

---
title: Keyboard Dongle
sidebar_label: Keyboard Dongle
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

:::warning
This implementation is experimental and subject to change.
:::

A bluetooth dongle can be added to any keyboard running ZMK. The result is a [split keyboard](./split-keyboards.md) with the dongle as "central". There are a number of advantages to adding a dongle, but also some disadvantages:

Benefits:

- The "central" dongle results in increased battery life for the keyboard/former "central", as it is now a peripheral.
- It is easier to connect to the host device.

Disadvantages:

- An extra microcontroller is needed.
- The keyboard becomes unusable without the dongle.

> 

Author: added it as a possible disadvantage

> 

Reviewer: To clarify, I don't think it should be listed under advantages or disadvantages, but as a note separate from both. This is because whether it is an advantage or a disadvantage depends on how the dongle is used.

> 

Author: moved it to a note and kept et vague. ref to split kb section

## Editing a Keyboard Definition to Support a Dongle

> 

Reviewer: Please link to https://zmk.dev/docs/faq#why-boards-and-shields-why-not-just-keyboard somewhere, stating that this guide is for keyboards which are board+shield only. Either that or you can figure out how to make it good for keyboards which are only boards as well.

In the examples below, we will be modifying the [New Keyboard Shield](../development/new-shield.mdx) guide files and will be building on top of that.

We will add the dongle in a way that it can be easily enabled, but is disabled by default.

> ### Keyboard Shield

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Shield Configuration Files
```
I think separating the sections by file type rather than by file makes more sense, since then you can write which file should be edited more clearly in the text.

> Lets start by adding the dongle body to the shield configuration.

Reviewer: Rephrase a bit to be consistent with the above suggestions.

```kconfig title="Kconfig.shield"
config SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE
    def_bool $(shields_list_contains,my_keyboard_dongle)
```

> ### Keyboard Defconfig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 
> <Tabs
> defaultValue="unibody"
> values={[
> {label: 'Unibody Keyboard', value: 'unibody'},
> {label: 'Split Keyboard', value: 'split'},
> ]}
> >
> <TabItem value="unibody">
> 
> Next we will modify the following lines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you will need to add the dongle configuration to your keyboard's `Kconfig.defconfig`.
<Tabs
defaultValue="unibody"
values={[
{label: 'Unibody Keyboard', value: 'unibody'},
{label: 'Split Keyboard', value: 'split'},
]}
>
<TabItem value="unibody">
```

> ```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"
> if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE
> 
>     config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
>         default "My Board"
> 
>     config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
>         default y
> 
>     config ZMK_SPLIT
>         default y
> 
>     # Prevent the dongle from going to sleep
>     config ZMK_SLEEP
>         default n
> 
>     # Increase the transmit power of the dongle
>     config BT_CLTR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
>         default y
> 
> endif
> 
> if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD
>     config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
>         default "My Board"
>     
> endif
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"
if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE

    config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
        default "My Board"

    config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        default y

    config ZMK_SPLIT
        default y

    # Prevent the dongle from going to sleep
    config ZMK_SLEEP
        default n

    # Increase the transmit power of the dongle
    config BT_CLTR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
        default y

endif

```

Then you will need to modify the section of the `Kconfig.defconfig` where your keyboard was defined, to set it up as a peripheral when built for use with a dongle.

```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"

if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD
    config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
        default "My Board"
    
endif
```
````

You need to add the conditional to the unibody in this section. You can edit and clarify the text I suggested when doing so.

Author: kept it together, but split the other

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="split">

> Next we will modify the following lines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"
if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE

    config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
        default "My Keyboard"

    config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        default y

    config ZMK_SPLIT_BLE_CENTRAL_PERIPHERALS
        default 2

    # Increase the transmit power of the dongle
    config BT_CLTR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
        default y

endif

if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_LEFT

    # Setting this to y will make the left half the central
    # We want it to be the central when dongle is not used
    config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        default y

    # Check if the left half is the central
    if ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
            default "My Keyboard"
            
    endif # ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL

endif # SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_LEFT

if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE || SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_LEFT || SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_RIGHT

    config ZMK_SPLIT
        default y

endif

> ```

Reviewer: Same as above, I'd split this into a section adding the dongle and a section on the modifications to the central. I'd move the `ZMK_SPLIT` option into the first section, so that there is less to edit.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ### Dongle Overlay

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dongle Overlay File
```
Just to be consistent with the last header.

We will replace the `kscan` with `kscan-mock` in the dongle overlay.

```dts title="my_keyboard_dongle.overlay"
// import the default shield configuration
#include "my_keyboard.dtsi"

&kscan {
    compatible = "zmk,kscan-mock";

    columns = <0>;
    rows = <0>;
    events = <0>;
}

> ```

Reviewer: Note that only split keyboards typically have .dtsi files defined. It would be good to add a comment on the matrix transform being necessary. Your introductory sentence could be more specific about the effects of importing the file.

Author: added a comment

## Enabling the Dongle

> Now that we have defined the default shield configuration, we can easily enable the dongle in the user configuration.

Reviewer: In case you haven't noticed, I think second person perspective is more suitable for "how-to" pages. That's just my opinion, though.

Author: rephrased

For a split keyboard, change this

```kconfig title="config/my_keyboard_left.conf"
# Disable central role to use dongle
CONFIG_ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL=n
```

For a unibody keyboard, change this

```kconfig title="config/my_keyboard.conf"
# Enable split functionality, this will put the unibody keyboard in peripheral mode
CONFIG_ZMK_SPLIT=y
```

> 

Reviewer: Did you decide that this looks better without tabs, then? After seeing both variants I'm neutral and would be happy with either, I think.

Author: I think for the one line edit it can stay like this

## Building the firmware

> :::note
> Start by flashing the `settings_reset` firmware on all the devices.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning
Before flashing your new firmware, flash the `settings_reset` firmware on all devices.
:::
```
Add a link to the firmware, please.

> For a split keyboard, you can modify the `build.yml` file to include the dongle configuration.
> 
> ```yaml
> include:
>   - board: nice_nano_v2
>     shield: my_keyboard_left
>   - board: nice_nano_v2
>     shield: my_keyboard_right
>   - board: nice_nano_v2
>     shield: my_keyboard_dongle
>   - board: nice_nano_v2
>     shield: settings_reset
> ```
> 
> For a unibody keyboard, you can modify the `build.yml` file to include the dongle configuration.
> 
> ```yaml
> include:
>   - board: nice_nano_v2
>     shield: my_keyboard
>   - board: nice_nano_v2
>     shield: my_keyboard_dongle
>   - board: nice_nano_v2
>     shield: settings_reset
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Add the appropriate lines to your `build.yml` file to build the firmware for your dongle, in addition to the other parts of your keyboard.

```yaml
include:
# -----------------------------------------
# Your other keyboard parts here
# -----------------------------------------
  - board: nice_nano_v2
    shield: my_keyboard_dongle
```
````

Reviewer: Maybe a note as a reminder at the bottom that any wireless capable board can be used as a dongle?

---
title: Keyboard Dongle
sidebar_label: Keyboard Dongle
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

:::warning
This implementation is experimental and subject to change.

> The information below is for [shield+board](../faq.md#why-boards-and-shields-why-not-just-keyboard) configuration, [board](../faq.md#what-is-a-board) builds is not documented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information below is for keyboards consisting of a [board and a shield](../faq.md#why-boards-and-shields-why-not-just-keyboard). The setup for keyboards consisting exclusively of a [board](../faq.md#what-is-a-board) is not yet documented.
```

:::

A bluetooth dongle can be added to any keyboard running ZMK. The result is a [split keyboard](./split-keyboards.md) with the dongle as "central". There are a number of advantages to adding a dongle, but also some disadvantages:

Benefits:

- The "central" dongle results in increased battery life for the keyboard/former "central", as it is now a peripheral.
- It is easier to connect to the host device.

Disadvantages:

- An extra microcontroller is needed.
- The keyboard becomes unusable without the dongle.

:::note
Depending on how the dongle is used, there are some additional [latency considerations](./split-keyboards.md#latency-considerations) to keep in mind. 

> :::

Reviewer: I think it would be better to be specific rather than vague about this topic, as the latency situation can be confusing if you don't take your time to think about it.

## Editing a Keyboard Definition to Support a Dongle

You will modify the [files defining your keyboard](../config/index.md#shield-folder) to support a dongle. 
The recommended approach to doing so (found below) allows you to easily enable a dongle, but it is disabled by default. 
This is done to ensure that backwards compatibility is maintained for users who do not wish to use a dongle.

### Shield Configuration Files

Start by adding the dongle body to the shield configuration.

```kconfig title="Kconfig.shield"
config SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE
    def_bool $(shields_list_contains,my_keyboard_dongle)
```

> ### Shield Defconfig Files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Covered by the previous header.

Next, add the dongle configuration to your keyboard's `Kconfig.defconfig`.

<Tabs
defaultValue="unibody"
values={[
{label: 'Unibody Keyboard', value: 'unibody'},
{label: 'Split Keyboard', value: 'split'},
]}
>
<TabItem value="unibody">

```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"
if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE

    config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
        default "My Board"

    config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        default y

    config ZMK_SPLIT
        default y

    # Prevent the dongle from going to sleep
    config ZMK_SLEEP
        default n

    # Increase the transmit power of the dongle
    config BT_CLTR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
        default y

endif

if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD
    config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
        default "My Board"
    
endif
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="split">

Add the following to your `Kconfig.defconfig` file.

```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"
if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE || SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_LEFT || SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_RIGHT

    config ZMK_SPLIT
        default y

> endif

Author: i think it makes sense to keep it, perhaps reword it instead

if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE

    config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
        default "My Keyboard"

    config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        default y

    config ZMK_SPLIT_BLE_CENTRAL_PERIPHERALS
        default 2

>     # Increase the transmit power of the dongle
>     config BT_CLTR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
>         default y

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Increase the transmit power of the dongle
    config BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
        default y
```

Reviewer 2: After fixing the spelling as above, I still couldn't get it to work in my build.  I spent very little effort trying though.  The following did build for me.

```suggestion
    # Increase the transmit power of the dongle
    choice BT_CTLR_TX_PWR
        default BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
    endchoice
```

Reviewer 3: Thanks, I think that's the right way to select `choice` type configs in Kconfig files.

endif
```

Modify the `Kconfig.defconfig` file to include the following:

```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"

if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_LEFT

    # Setting this to y will make the left half the central
    # We want it to be the central when dongle is not used
    config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        default y

    # Check if the left half is the central
    if ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
            default "My Keyboard"
            
    endif # ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL

endif # SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_LEFT
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Dongle Overlay File

Replace the `kscan` with `kscan-mock` in the dongle overlay.

:::warning

> Matrix transform must be included here or in the `my_keyboard.dtsi` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your keyboard's matrix transform must be defined and selected under the `chosen` node either here or in a `my_keyboard.dtsi` file.
```

:::

```dts title="my_keyboard_dongle.overlay"
// import the default shield configuration
#include "my_keyboard.dtsi"

&kscan {
    compatible = "zmk,kscan-mock";

    columns = <0>;
    rows = <0>;
    events = <0>;
}

```

## Enabling the Dongle

> Now it is possible to enable the dongle in the user configuration.

Reviewer: Could you rephrase this so that it reads smoothly for users who are using someone else's keyboard definition and so the upper section doesn't apply to them?

For a split keyboard, change this

```kconfig title="config/my_keyboard_left.conf"
# Disable central role to use dongle
CONFIG_ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL=n
```

For a unibody keyboard, change this

```kconfig title="config/my_keyboard.conf"
# Enable split functionality, this will put the unibody keyboard in peripheral mode
CONFIG_ZMK_SPLIT=y
```

## Building the firmware

Add the appropriate lines to your `build.yml` file to build the firmware for your dongle, in addition to the other parts of your keyboard.

```yaml
include:
# -----------------------------------------
# Your other keyboard parts here
# -----------------------------------------
  - board: nice_nano_v2
    shield: my_keyboard_dongle
  - board: nice_nano_v2
    shield: settings_reset
```

:::note
Any microcontroller with BLE support can be used as a dongle.
:::

:::warning
Before flashing your new firmware, flash the `settings_reset` [UF2 firmware](../troubleshooting/connection-issues.mdx#acquiring-a-reset-uf2) on all devices.

> :::

Reviewer: I'd swap the order of these two blocks.

Author: swapped

import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

:::warning
This implementation is experimental and subject to change.

The information below is for keyboards consisting of a [board and a shield](../faq.md#why-boards-and-shields-why-not-just-keyboard). The setup for keyboards consisting exclusively of a [board](../faq.md#what-is-a-board) is not yet documented.
:::

A bluetooth dongle can be added to any keyboard running ZMK. The result is a [split keyboard](./split-keyboards.md) with the dongle as "central". There are a number of advantages to adding a dongle, but also some disadvantages:

Benefits:

- The "central" dongle results in increased battery life for the keyboard/former "central", as it is now a peripheral.
- It is easier to connect to the host device.

Disadvantages:

- An extra microcontroller is needed.
- The keyboard becomes unusable without the dongle.

:::note
Depending on how the dongle is used, there are some additional [latency considerations](./split-keyboards.md#latency-considerations) to keep in mind. 
On average, the latency increase is around 3.75ms, in worst case scenario, the latency increase can be up to 7.5ms compared to a unibody keyboard.

> :::

Reviewer 4: From a product liability perspective, I'd say "in some situations, ..." as poor Bluetooth connectivity can push latency even higher. Is it worth calling out one of the more common scenarios?

## Editing a Keyboard Definition to Support a Dongle

You will modify the [files defining your keyboard](../config/index.md#shield-folder) to support a dongle. 
The recommended approach to doing so (found below) allows you to easily enable a dongle, but it is disabled by default. 
This is done to ensure that backwards compatibility is maintained for users who do not wish to use a dongle.

### Shield Configuration Files

Start by adding the dongle body to the shield configuration.

```kconfig title="Kconfig.shield"
config SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE
    def_bool $(shields_list_contains,my_keyboard_dongle)
```

Next, add the dongle configuration to your keyboard's `Kconfig.defconfig`.

<Tabs
defaultValue="unibody"
values={[
{label: 'Unibody Keyboard', value: 'unibody'},
{label: 'Split Keyboard', value: 'split'},
]}
>
<TabItem value="unibody">

```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"
if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE

config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
    default "My Board"

config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
    default y

config ZMK_SPLIT
    default y

> 

Reviewer 4: In my opinion, this is optional and unrelated to using a dongle. I agree it may be helpful and perhaps merits a text reference to documentation of `BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8` such as https://zmk.dev/docs/troubleshooting/connection-issues

# Increase the transmit power of the dongle
choice BT_CTLR_TX_PWR
    default BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
endchoice

endif

if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD && !ZMK_SPLIT
config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
    default "My Board"
endif
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="split">

Modify the following `Kconfig.defconfig` file to include the dongle in the split keyboard configuration.

```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"
if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE || SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_LEFT || SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_RIGHT

config ZMK_SPLIT
    default y

endif

if SHIELD_MY_KEYBOARD_DONGLE

config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
    default "My Keyboard"

config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
    default y

config ZMK_SPLIT_BLE_CENTRAL_PERIPHERALS

>     default 2

Reviewer 5: I was not able to overwrite the default like this. During my testing, it only worked inside the `.conf` file. Have you tested this successfully?

Author: i have not as i also used a conf

https://github.com/RasmusKoit/pipar/blob/master/config/boards/shields/pipar/pipar_dongle.conf , at some point i shifted from real world examples to what is supposed to be more correct

{/* Here is an example diagram of a split keyboard with a dongle:

```mermaid
graph TD;
    A[Computer/Host Device] <-- USB or BLE --> DONGLE[Dongle/Central];
    DONGLE -. BLE .-> LEFT[Left Half/Peripheral];
    DONGLE -. BLE .-> RIGHT[Right Half/Peripheral];
```

Dotted lines represent BLE connections.
Solid lines represent USB connections. */}

:::info
For more information on how to set up a unibody or split keyboard, refer to [New Keyboard Shield](../development/new-shield.mdx) under Guides.
After that is done, you can follow the steps below to add a dongle to the setup.
:::

## Benefits/Disadvantages of using a Dongle

Benefits:

- For unibody keyboards, the dongle sets the unibody keyboard as peripheral, improving battery life.
- For split keyboards, adding a dongle enables both keyboard halves to act as peripherals, meaning equal improved battery life for both halves.
- Easier to connect to the host device.

Disadvantages:

- Extra microcontroller needed
- Keyboard is unusable without the dongle.
- Added latency due to the extra hop between the host device and the keyboard halves compared to a USB connected non-dongle setup.

> 

Author: lets get rid of it until then

## Defining a Dongle for a Keyboard 

:::note
In the examples below, we will be referencing the New Keyboard Shield guide files and will be building on top of that.
Both split and unibody keyboards can be used with a dongle.

> :::

Author: lets get rid of it until then

> :::

Author: ignore the reply above. Rephrased the sentance to make it flow better

### Keyboard Shield

<Tabs
defaultValue="split"
values={[
{label: 'Split Keyboard', value: 'split'},
{label: 'Unibody Keyboard', value: 'unibody'},
]}
>

<TabItem value="split">

First we will introduce a third split to our keyboard configuration. This will be used as the dongle.

```kconfig title="Kconfig.shield"
config SHIELD_MY_BOARD_DONGLE
    def_bool $(shields_list_contains,my_board_dongle)

config SHIELD_MY_BOARD_LEFT
    def_bool $(shields_list_contains,my_board_left)

config SHIELD_MY_BOARD_RIGHT
    def_bool $(shields_list_contains,my_board_right)
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="unibody">
We will add a dongle to the unibody keyboard configuration. 

```kconfig title="Kconfig.shield"
config SHIELD_MY_BOARD_DONGLE
    def_bool $(shields_list_contains,my_board_dongle)

config SHIELD_MY_BOARD
    def_bool $(shields_list_contains,my_board)

```
</TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: I think the tabs are unnecessary here. I'd rewrite this so that it reads something like "Add the following lines to the bottom of your keyboard's `.shield`." and then at the bottom explain what the 2 lines do.

Author: shortened and got rid of the tab

### Keyboard Defconfig

:::info
In the shield defconfig we will assume that the user does not want to use the dongle by default.
This is done so that the user can easily enable the dongle in the user configuration without having to modify the shield configuration.

> :::

Reviewer: Instead of this note here, I'd write something under the ## header directly stating that this is how to *define* a dongle in such a way that it allows for easy choice between dongle setup and non-dongle setup. Then I'd say we have a separate `## Enabling and Building with a Dongle` with a short text underneath stating that this is how you do it *if the setup is defined flexibly like in the previous section*.

Author: restructuring

]}
>

<TabItem value="split">

Next we will define the roles of the keyboard halves. The left and right halves will be set as peripherals, and the dongle will be set as the central.
We will also only give the central device the keyboard name.

There is also an option to still use the left half as the central, and the right half as the peripheral. In that case the dongle will not be used.

```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"
if SHIELD_MY_BOARD_DONGLE

    config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
        default "My Board"

    config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        default y

    config ZMK_SPLIT_BLE_CENTRAL_PERIPHERALS
        default 2

    # Prevent the dongle from going to sleep
    config ZMK_SLEEP
        default n

    # Increase the transmit power of the dongle
    config BT_CLTR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
        default y

endif

if SHIELD_MY_BOARD_LEFT

    # Setting this to y will make the left half the central
    # We want it to be the central when dongle is not used
    config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        default y

    # Check if the left half is the central
    if ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
            default "My Board"
            

>     endif # ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL

Reviewer: Thinking on this some more, I think it would be better if we allowed the left/unibody to keep their name and rename the dongle to "My ZMK Dongle". That would simplify this.

Author: I think I prefer the current solution more, it feels more finished compared to "My Board Dongle", seems like it is part of the package

endif # SHIELD_MY_BOARD_LEFT

if SHIELD_MY_BOARD_DONGLE || SHIELD_MY_BOARD_LEFT || SHIELD_MY_BOARD_RIGHT

    config ZMK_SPLIT
        default y

endif
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="unibody">

Now we will add the dongle configuration to the unibody keyboard.
We will default the unibody keyboard to not use the dongle configuration.

```kconfig title="Kconfig.defconfig"
if SHIELD_MY_BOARD_DONGLE

    config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
        default "My Board"

    config ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL
        default y

    config ZMK_SPLIT
        default y

    # Prevent the dongle from going to sleep
    config ZMK_SLEEP
        default n

    # Increase the transmit power of the dongle
    config BT_CLTR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
        default y

endif

if SHIELD_MY_BOARD
    config ZMK_KEYBOARD_NAME
        default "My Board"
    

>     config ZMK_SPLIT
>         default n

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
If unset things default to `n`.

    
endif
```

</TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: Reading through this I think you could also get rid of the tabs from here too. Again, I'd try to phrase it in such a way that makes it clear that we are *adding/modifying* lines. To that extent I'd split this into three parts: One where you write the stuff that's in the dongle if block, one for editing the former central, and one for handling ZMK_SPLIT

### Dongle Overlay

> :::note
> Dongle overlay configuration is same for both split and unibody keyboards.
> :::

Reviewer: If we get rid of tabs elsewhere then this note is no longer needed
```suggestion
```

> In most common cases the dongle will not have any keys, in that case we can instead use a mock kscan module to simulate the keys.
> 
> Here we will define a mock kscan module with no keys and a default matrix transform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dongle needs to have a mock keyboard scan for technical reasons. 
```
I'd add a sentence to the end of my suggestion noting that if the dongle has keys, then the relevant sections of the new shield guide for split keyboards should be followed instead.

> The matrix map needs to match the keyboard matrix map.

Reviewer: I'd rephrase and adjust to make the recommended solution be having the matrix transform in a `.dtsi` which is then imported, like in the new keyboard shield guide.

```dts title="my_board_dongle.overlay"
#include <dt-bindings/zmk/matrix_transform.h>

/ {
    chosen {
        zmk,kscan = &mock_kscan;
        zmk,matrix-transform = &default_transform;
    };

    mock_kscan: kscan_0 {
        compatible = "zmk,kscan-mock";
        columns = <0>;
        rows = <0>;
        events = <0>;
    };

    default_transform: keymap_transform_0 {
        compatible = "zmk,matrix-transform";
        columns = <3>;
        rows = <3>;
        map = <
                RC(0, 0) RC(0, 1) RC(3, 0)
                RC(1, 0) RC(1, 1) RC(1, 2)
                RC(2, 0) RC(2, 1) RC(2, 2)
        >;
    };
};
```

> :::note
> Without the matrix transform, the dongle will not be able to communicate with the keyboard.
> You will get an error message similar to `zmk: No behavior assigned to 7 on layer 0`.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Unnecessary warning imo, assuming the matrix transform part is written out better like in my previous suggestion.

### Setting user configuration

Now that we have defined the default shield configuration, we can easily enable the dongle in the user configuration.

> If we do not want to use the dongle, this step can be skipped.

Reviewer: Should be its own section as stated previously.

<Tabs
defaultValue="split"
values={[
{label: 'Split Keyboard', value: 'split'},
{label: 'Unibody Keyboard', value: 'unibody'},
]}>

<TabItem value="split">

```kconfig title="config/my_board_left.conf"
# Disable central role to use dongle
CONFIG_ZMK_SPLIT_ROLE_CENTRAL=n
```

When using a split keyboard, you can use a single file without the `_left` or `_right` suffix to configure both sides. 
For example, `corne.conf` and `corne.keymap` will apply to both `corne_left` and `corne_right`. If a shared config file exists, any left or right files will be ignored.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="unibody">

```kconfig title="config/my_board.conf"
# Enable split functionality, this will put the unibody keyboard in peripheral mode
CONFIG_ZMK_SPLIT=y
```
</TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: Since we remove tabs everywhere else, should also remove tabs here. I'd just state both options one after the other, they're short texts.

> :::note
> More information about [User Config Folder](../config/index.md#user-config-folder)
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Refer to this earlier.

```yaml
include:
  - board: nice_nano_v2
    shield: my_board_left
  - board: nice_nano_v2
    shield: my_board_right
  - board: nice_nano_v2
    shield: my_board_dongle
  - board: nice_nano_v2
    shield: settings_reset
```

Start by flashing the `settings_reset` firmware on all the devices.

:::note
More information about reseting split keyboards can be found under [troubleshooting Connection Issues](../troubleshooting/connection-issues.mdx#reset-split-keyboard-procedure)
:::
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="unibody">
After writing the configuration files, you can modify the `build.yml` file to include the dongle configuration.

Please keep in mind that the dongle does not have to be the same microcontroller as the unibody keyboard microcontroller.
Any microcontroller can be used as the dongle that supports BLE.

```yaml
include:
  - board: nice_nano_v2
    shield: my_board
  - board: nice_nano_v2
    shield: my_board_dongle
  - board: nice_nano_v2
    shield: settings_reset
```

:::note
More information about troubleshooting keyboards can be found under [troubleshooting Connection Issues](../troubleshooting/connection-issues.mdx#reset-split-keyboard-procedure)
:::

</TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: Again, I think we can cut down on text and tabs by simply saying to *add* the lines to your build.yaml.
